Use the money gem (#141)
andycroll/andycroll.com: _posts/2021/2021-11-15-dont-use-floats-use-ruby-money-for-representing-currency.md

---
title: "Don't Use Floats and Use the Ruby Money Gem to Represent Currencies"
description: "It's surprising how often you still see this in the wild"
layout: article
category: ruby
image:
  base: "2021/dont-use-floats-use-ruby-money-for-representing-currency"
  alt: "Coins"
  credit: "Dan Dennis"
  source: "https://unsplash.com/photos/pZ56pVKd_6c"

---

> We often have to manage monetary values in our applications. And there’s a terrific open source solution in the Ruby community that is _much_ better than rolling your own.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We often have to manage monetary values in our applications. (You're in luck!/Guess what?) There’s a terrific open source solution in the Ruby community that is _much_ better than rolling your own.
```

Author: ```suggestion
We often have to manage monetary values in our applications. Guess what? There’s a terrific open source solution in the Ruby community that is _much_ better than rolling your own.
```

## Instead of…

> …useing `Float`s or `BigDecimal`s to represent money

Reviewer: *using

Reviewer: *add a colon

Author: ```suggestion
…using `Float`s or `BigDecimal`s to represent money:
```

```ruby
# In your migration
add_column :products, :price, :decimal

class Product < ApplicationModel
  def price_to_s
    "$ #{price.round(2).to_s("F")} USD"
  end
end

product.price = 5
#=> 0.5e1
product.price_to_s
#=> "$ 5.0 USD"
```

## Use…

> …the [ruby `money`](https://github.com/RubyMoney/money) gem, or in Rails the [`money-rails` gem](https://github.com/RubyMoney/money-rails):

Reviewer: *Ruby

Reviewer: ```suggestion
…the Ruby [`money`](https://github.com/RubyMoney/money) gem, or in Rails, the [`money-rails`](https://github.com/RubyMoney/money-rails) gem:
```

```ruby
# In your migration
add_monetize :products, :price

class Product < ApplicationModel
  monetize :price_cents
end

product.price = Money.from_amount(5, "USD")
#=> #<Money fractional:500 currency:USD>
product.price.format
#=> "$5.00"
```

## Why?

> The first part of this recommendation is to use a non-floating point implementation to represent your your currency values. Floats can introduce rounding errors, due to their [underlying representaion inside a computer](http://download.oracle.com/docs/cd/E19957-01/806-3568/ncg_goldberg.html). Just _do not_ do this.

Reviewer: Is there a smoother, clearer way to start this paragraph?

*double 'your'

*no comma after 'errors'

Author: ```suggestion
Firstly, _never_ use a non-floating point implementation to represent your your currency values. Floats can introduce rounding errors due to their [underlying representaion inside a computer](http://download.oracle.com/docs/cd/E19957-01/806-3568/ncg_goldberg.html). Just _do not_ do this.
```

> Decimals solve that issue to an extent as they behave in a more intuative (and money-like) manner.

Reviewer: *intuitive

Author: ```suggestion
Decimals solve that issue to an extent as they behave in a more intuitive (and money-like) manner.
```

> However the `money` gem provides huge benefits on top of enforcing these well-worn recommendations for underlying data structures. It essentially provides a simple, but sophisticated, battle-tested ”“value object” pattern for monetary amounts and currencies. _Like all the best gems._

Reviewer: This first sentence is a little clunky.

*yet sophisticated (a personal, stylistic correction, I say)

*comma after 'battle-tested'?

Reviewer: Should the 'like all the best gems' go after 'pattern' — since all the best gems don't deal with money and currencies?

Author: ```suggestion
The `money` gem provides additional benefits as well as enforcing the well-worn recommendations for underlying data structures. It provides a simple, yet sophisticated, battle-tested, “value object” pattern—like all the best gems—for monetary amounts and currencies.
```

> It has a sophisticated implementation of `#format` that works with the standard ruby internationalisation (i18n) backend to properly (and flexibly) display monetary amounts as strings.

Reviewer: Need to decide if we're capitalising 'ruby' or not in this post.

Author: ```suggestion
It has a sophisticated implementation of `#format` that works with the standard Ruby internationalisation (i18n) backend to properly (and flexibly) display monetary amounts as strings.
```

You can also easily convert currencies using the built-in [currency exchange](https://github.com/RubyMoney/money#currency-exchange) functionality, for which you can provide your own rates or link to a number of regularly updated currency rate services.

## Why not?

> You might want to code your own your 'money' representation if your application is operating in a more detailed financial modelling world. If you are calculating fractional monetary amounts the `money` gem may not have the levels of sophistication you require.

Reviewer: *Comma after 'monetary amounts'

Author: ```suggestion
You might want to code your own your 'money' representation if your application is operating in a more detailed financial modelling world. If you are calculating fractional monetary amounts, the `money` gem may not have the levels of sophistication you require.
```
